#LyX 1.4.4 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 245
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\begin_preamble

\usepackage{a4wide}



\usepackage{color}
\end_preamble
\language english
\inputencoding latin1
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize 11
\spacing single
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 0
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Subsection*
IN2009: Language Processors
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
2006/2007 Coursework 2
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph
Organisation:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This coursework assessment may be completed individually, or in pairs, and
 there is no penalty for working in a pair.
 You will hand work in as individuals but the handin procedure will allow
 you to say who you collaborated with (and you must do so!).
 
\emph on
Pairs
\emph default
 only -- not threesomes!
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph
Hand in:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The deadline and the electronic handin procedure, and exactly what you should
 hand-in, are documented online.
 Obviously you should change file and directory permissions while you are
 working so that your work is not visible to others -- remember plagiarism
 carries severe penalties.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Modify the MiniJava implementation to undertake 
\emph on
type checking
\emph default
.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection*
The work
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
You will extend the MiniJava implementation, including the typechecker.
 Copy the MiniJava implementation directory to where you want to work, using:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\family typewriter
cp -R /soi/sw/courses/daveb/IN2009/minijava/chap5
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This is available as a zip file on Cityspace too.
 Files README in the various directories give a brief description of the
 structure of the implementation, and the symbol table mechanism and typechecker
 were studied in Session 5.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Add the operators 
\family typewriter
/
\family default
 (divide), 
\family typewriter
>
\family default
 (greater than), 
\family typewriter
||
\family default
 (or), and 
\family typewriter
a?b:c
\family default
 (shortcut for 
\family typewriter
if(a){b}else{c}
\family default
) to your implementation.
 They have the same syntax and meaning as they do in Java (you may need
 to research this if you are not familiar with how it works!), and appropriate
 typechecks should be implemented for them (
\family typewriter
op1 ? op2 : op3
\family default
 returns 
\family typewriter
op2
\family default
 if 
\family typewriter
op1
\family default
 is true, and returns 
\family typewriter
op3
\family default
 if 
\family typewriter
op1
\family default
 is false).
 [30%]
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Add appropriate typechecking for the 
\family typewriter
for
\family default
 statement you implemented in assessment 1 (for those who did not hand in
 the first coursework, I will publish some guidance on what needs to be
 added - this will be published 
\bar under
after
\bar default
 two weeks from the deadline of assessment 1).
 [50%]
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
For highest marks: add appropriate typechecking for the 
\family typewriter
throw
\family default
 and 
\family typewriter
try
\family default
 statements implemented in assessment 1.
 
\series bold
\emph on
Please do not attempt this section until you have completed the previous
 two - they are worth a much higher proportion of the marks!
\series default
\emph default
 [20%]
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection*
The 
\family typewriter
for
\family default
 statement
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A clarification of the 
\family typewriter
for
\family default
 statement.
 To reduce the confusion caused by the definition of 
\family typewriter
for
\family default
 used in assessment 1, please follow this new definition for assessment
 2:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Formula \[
<Statement>\;->\;<for>\;(<Id>=<Exp>;<Exp>;<Id>=<Exp>)\,\{<Statement>\}\]

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This definition solves the issue of repeating 
\family typewriter
;
\family default
 and also removes the possibility of nested 
\family typewriter
for
\family default
 or 
\family typewriter
while
\family default
 loops in the conditional part.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
